

Communication is ubiquitous in nature but linguistic communication -- i.e. natural language -- is unique to humans . There are inherent difficulties in determining how language may have evolved -- i.e. out of simpler communicative precursors -LRB- proto-language -RRB- . On the one hand it is difficult to define what constitutes language -- it is always in flux it is infinitely flexible and it is one of the most complex behaviours known Christiansen-Kirby-2003 . On the other hand there is a paucity of direct evidence available with which to confirm current theories -- language does not fossilise nor can we go back in time to observe th actual precursors of human-level linguistic capacities .

Language origins research may appear to be a purely epistemic project ; however this programme finds application in contemporary machine learning and artificial intelligence -LRB- ML/AI -RRB- . Understanding the fundamental principles that are involved in the -LRB- biological and cultural -RRB- evolution of effective communication may lead to innovative communication methods fo use by interacting AI agents and multi-robot systems Wagner-et-al-2003 . AI agents need a common language to coordinate successfully and to communicate with humans . Furthermore given the close relationship between language and thought a clear understanding of how languages arise and persist in a population may also lend some additional insight into human cognitive capacities helping lead the way in creating an artificial general intelligence -LRB- AGI -RRB- .

The similar goals of language origins research -LRB- from a philosophical biological bio-linguistic and cognitive systems perspective -RRB- and emergent communication research -LRB- from a computational perspective -RRB- should be apparent . One of the questions asked in contemporary machine learning is

How can emergent communication become more like natural language ?
This question finds parallel expression in language origins research

How might something like natural language evolve out of a simple communication system ?
Thus progress in language origins may help direct research in emergent communication and vice-versa . However there has been relatively little dialogue between these two approaches .

To explain how language evolved out of simpler precursors it is necessary to understand the salient differences between language and simple communication or signalling . Most researchers -LRB- in both programmes -RRB- working on these questions take compositionality -LRB- productivity openness hierarchical structure generative capacity complex syntax etc. -RRB- as their primary target . Demonstrating how compositionality may have evolved is supposed to be -LRB- at least partially -RRB- sufficient for explaining how language evolved . Furthermore narrowing one 's explanatory target from the formidable question of how language evolved to the question of how one component of language -- e.g. complex syntax -- evolved affords some degree of analytic tractability .

However there is reason to think that compositionality is the wrong target on the biological side -LRB- and so the wrong target on the ML side -RRB- . As such the purpose of this paper is to explore this claim . This has theoretical implications for language origins research more generally but the focus here will be the implications for research on emergent communication in computer science and ML -- specifically regarding the types of programmes that might be expected to work and those which will not . My hope then is that this work will help to direct future research in fruitful new directions .




@label
Many researchers in language origins and emergent communication take compositionality as their primary target for explaining how simple communication systems can become more like natural language
@label
Demonstrating how compositionality may have evolved is supposed to be -LRB- at least partially -RRB- sufficient for explaining how language evolved
@label
I suggest that if machine learning research in emergent communication is to take cues from biological systems and language origins then compositionality is not the correct target



