This paper attempts to design an intelligent simulation model for pedestrian crowd evacuation .
For this purpose the cellular automata -LRB- CA -RRB- was fully integrated with fuzzy logic the kth
nearest neighbors -LRB- KNN -RRB- and some statistical equations . In this model each pedestrian was
assigned a specific speed according to his/her physical biological and emotional features . The
emergency behavior and evacuation efficiency of each pedestrian were evaluated by coupling
his/her speed with various elements such as environment pedestrian distribution and
familiarity with the exits . These elements all have great impacts on the evacuation process .
Several experiments were carried out to verify the performance of the model in different
emergency scenarios . The results show that the proposed model can predict the evacuation
time and emergency behavior in various types of building interiors and pedestrian distributions .
The research provides a good reference to the design of building evacuation systems .
Occurring emergencies in big places makes the evacuation
operation difficult due to adding confusion fear and even
vagueness and anxiety to mass residents -LSB- 1 -RSB- . Constructed
environment evacuees ' communication and the plans and
measures in place to direct the reactions of participants to
environmental conditions and characteristics can influence the
evacuation system . Therefore various evacuation methods
appear such as protective preventive rescue and
reconstructive evacuations -LSB- 2 -RSB- . The problem of evacuation is
not solely the physical movement of evacuees ; it is
multifaceted and related to the physical and social
circumstances such as the high possibility for hazard great
stage of pressure and inadequate data . These circumstances
illustrate robust communication between environment danger
egress process population demographics and participant
behavior -LSB- 3 -RSB- . A crowd is a communication of a set of people
-LSB- 4 -RSB- . Various features belong to crowds ; therefore during an
emergency a number of behaviors would be exposed in
community areas -LSB- 5 -RSB- and simulation is a means of expecting
behaviors via responding to the `` what-if '' situations -LSB- 6 -RSB- . Hence
Crowd evacuation simulation is a method for mimicking the
flow of participants for the same goal of evacuation from the
same place -LSB- 4 -RSB- . In the last two decades rising dedicated
attempts via researchers clearly have been seen to explore
crowd evacuation during an emergency . Evacuation dynamics
have been widely considered to eliminate deaths and injuries
during emergency pedestrian incidences -LSB- 7-13 -RSB- . A vast number
of models is developed to know individual behaviors such as
how individual react a specific condition and how to deal with
varied kind of scenarios in the crowd during an emergency ; the
entire investigations have been there for creating a foundation
of enhancement in managing emergencies -LSB- 14-20 -RSB- . Modeling is a way of answering
difficulties thus a newly developed framework after
analyzing and controlling via basic pro-test shows the
authenticity of its procedures to be mentioned as a model -LSB- 4 -RSB- .
Existing models can be separated into three main groups : the
first one is classical models the second one is hybridized
models and the third one is a generic model . Each group
comprises some models in the recent past ; various
applications to investigate crowd evacuation in both normal
and emergency situations were done due to these models .
Microscopic is one of the classical models and the details of
the individuals and individual behaviors are precisely
identified . However it has a problem in dealing with the large
size of participants . In microscopic cellular automata lattice
gas social force agent-based game theory and experimental
approaches were designed . In the last two decades cellular
automata models have been created to consider an evacuating
group of individuals under different circumstances . These
models can be categorized into two groups . The first depends
on the associations among situations and pedestrians . For
example in 2007 Varas et al. utilized a two-dimensional
cellular automaton model to imitate the process of leaving from
a single and double door classroom with complete ability . In
this study to each grid the structure of the room obstructions
spreading floor field were measured . Moreover the effect of
panic as a counted dimension was calculated which % 5
possibilities of not moving . The model applied random
selection to cope with the collision issue . Therefore the
proposed model changed into non-deterministic via these
characteristics . From the simulation result it was clearly
observed that the best locations of the door and evacuation
efficiency were not enhanced by substituting a double door
with two distinct doors . Finally for the evacuation time a
number of persons and way out width were considered due to suggesting simple scaling law -LSB- 21 -RSB- .
In 2011 Alizadeh proposed a CA model to analyze process
of evacuation in a room contained obstructions and had
different configuration of the room such as exit and
obstruction locations width of the exit light of the area
evacuee 's psychology and spreading of the crowd which had
a significant impact on the evacuation process . The case study
of this model was the restaurant and a classroom . The impact
of the distribution of the evacuees location and width of the
door on time of the evacuation argued and output of the model
was com-pared with some static models -LSB- 22 -RSB- . In 2014 Guo
Ren-Yong created a model based on CA with better separation
of the area and advanced speed of walking to demonstrate
moving away of pedestrians from a room with a single exit
door . When experiments were simulated near the exit they
noticed the shape of the crowd was affected by both the
separation of the area and advanced speed of walking duration
of the individuals at various positions and efficiency of the
evacuees expressed via two-time indicators . Besides the
association between width and flow of the exit was expressed
via this model -LSB- 23 -RSB- .
In 2015 Li and Han recommended a model for simulating
pedestrian evacuation based on extended cellular automata to
configure different behavioral propensities in people .
Familiarity and aggressive were the two chosen behavioral
propensities to be examined via this model . During the
experimentations of this simulation behavioral parameters
and pedestrian flow arrangements were verified . The output of
this study demonstrated that evacuation time de-creases with
increasing individuals ' familiarity and increases with the
increasing individuals ' aggressiveness . Thus it is clearly seen
that the best evacuation was based on the familiarity of the
individual with avoiding aggressive behavior -LSB- 24 -RSB- .
In 2018 Kontou et al. created a model of crowd evacuation
based on cellular automata -LRB- CA -RRB- parallel computing tool to
simulate and evaluate behaviors and distinct characteristics of
the people within the area of evacuation which comprises
disable people . A secondary school in the region of Xanthi
which contained disable children was chosen for the
simulation process . With noticing and existing earthquake the
school controlled safety exercise ; the overall time of the
evacuation was recorded . Finally the proposed model via the
empirical data authenticated and there was a convenience
inference to the special area -LSB- 25 -RSB- . Table 1 shows information
for future use .
The main goals of this paper are : 1 -RRB- Collecting most of the
research works related to various applications applied to
pedestrian evacuation using a cellular automata approach in
the microscopic classical model . 2 -RRB- Investigating features
techniques and implications of the different applications . 3 -RRB-
Learning from 1 and 2 to make a decision to design a new
intelligent and reliable model to simulate participants '
appearing emergency behaviors and evacuation efficiency
during an emergency evacuation . The model is designed based
on an amalgamation of cellular automata fuzzy logic
technique KNN algorithm and some statistical equations .
Consequently this paper provides details and specifics in the
area of pedestrian evacuation and provides opportunities to the
researchers to reach the related information easily and
determine their future research directions .
This research study 's contributions are : 1 -RRB- Utilizing
participants ' physical biological and emotional elements to
apply different speeds for each participant . 2 -RRB- Incorporating
the speed with different elements such as environment
participants ' distributions and familiarity of the participant to
the exit doors to the evacuation model to improve their
appearing emergency behaviors and evacuation efficiency .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows : Section
2 presents the research method . Section 3 shows the result and
analysis of the simulations . Finally Section 4 concludes the
main points and suggests future research studies .
Despite the fact that developed models based on pedestrian
evacuation approaches have been extensively used and
confirmed there is still essential to create models that
carefully simulate people 's evacuation time and appeared
behaviors during an emergency evacuation . It is vital to review
many previous works and notice different factors that made an
impact on participant behaviors during the evacuation process
and also on participants ' evacuation time .
In this study an intelligent model built based on analyzing
the previous applications of the cellular automata approach
which is one of the microscopic model 's approaches . Inside
this model cellular automata -LRB- CA -RRB- employed with a
combination of the fuzzy logic idea to define the value of the
participant 's properties such as physical biological and
emotional and then defined values of the participant 's
properties were used within some statistical equation to define
desired speed for that participant . Additionally the KNN
algorithm was applied to find the nearest exit door during the
evacuation process .
This study discusses the impact of the defined desired
heterogeneous speed for participants with a combination of
participants ' behavior familiarity environment and
participants ' distribution through the distinct parts of the
cafeteria on the appearing emergency behaviors and evocation
efficiency . From simulation results appeared different
properties of participants caused different speeds for
participants . Hence a collision between participants C.W.A
occurred during the evacuation process . Different behaviors
such as C.W.O and O.B.D.E appeared and different evacuation
time was recorded for each participant . More experiments
presented that environment such as obstacles size and number
of main and distinct parts of the cafeteria exit doors had a great
impact on changing participants ' emergency behaviors and
evacuation time .
This research confirms that participants with different
properties various distributions through the cafeteria and the
presence of obstacles are the key to appearing in various
behaviors and congestion . Conversely it is approved that
various designs may decrease the impact of those factors .
Firstly instead of one main exit use two or more main exit
doors . Secondly the distinct part of the cafeteria increase the
number of exit doors meanwhile changes the distribution of
the participants inside the cafeteria into larger distribution .
Thirdly introduce the exit doors to the participants to choose
the closest exit to evacuate as these situations simulated with
the proposed model .
In the future designing and implementing fire will be
examined . Other features such as : how the fire spread out
through the building according to its environment will be
added . Additionally the effect of the fire on the agents '
behaviors would be analyzed and discussed . References -LSB- 31 -RSB-
is very close to our future work while in our work numbers of dead injured or suffocated agents as a result of fire and smoke
will be recorded . Additionally this model will be enhanced to
make a simulation for the second floor and above . Also it can
be seen as a real-world application and will be optimized by
different optimizer algorithms such as fitness dependent
optimizer -LRB- FDO -RRB- -LSB- 32 -RSB- WOA-BAT optimization -LSB- 33 -RSB- donkey
and smuggler optimization -LSB- 34 -RSB- and modified grey wolf
optimizer -LSB- 35 -RSB- to find best location of the main exit door
through the area of evacuation in a building . Finally interested
readers can read references -LSB- 36-38 -RSB- for the possibility of
obtaining future directions .

@label
This paper attempts to design an intelligent simulation model for pedestrian crowd evacuation .
For this purpose the cellular automata -LRB- CA -RRB- was fully integrated with fuzzy logic the kth
nearest neighbors -LRB- KNN -RRB- and some statistical equations .
@label
In this model each pedestrian was
assigned a specific speed according to his/her physical biological and emotional features .
@label
The emergency behavior and evacuation efficiency of each pedestrian were evaluated by coupling
his/her speed with various elements such as environment pedestrian distribution and
familiarity with the exits .
@label
These elements all have great impacts on the evacuation process .
@label
Several experiments were carried out to verify the performance of the model in different
emergency scenarios .
@label
The results show that the proposed model can predict the evacuation
time and emergency behavior in various types of building interiors and pedestrian distributions .
@label
The research provides a good reference to the design of building evacuation systems .