A statement that has either a true or false value is called a proposition . Propositional logic studies the idea of building complicated propositions using simple
propositions or statements connected by logical connectives . The true or false
value of a compound proposition depends on the values of underlying simple
propositions and their structure of connectives .
Two popular algorithms for determining the satisfiability of propositional
logic are : DavisLogemannLoveland -LRB- DLL -RRB- algorithm and WalkSAT algorithm .
DLL is a backtrack based complete algorithm and WalkSAT is an incomplete
local search algorithm for determining the boolean satisfiability of the propositional logic formulae . These algorithms are unable to apply any prior belief
about the assignments of the propositions . The WalkSAT algorithm always
starts and continues with a uniform distribution and is unable to update it 's
belief about the variable assignment from an unsatisfiable situation rather it
repeatedly samples from the uniform distribution on each trial . The current
algorithms do n't employ the belief update or probabilistic reasoning about the
binary assignment of the variables . This paper addresses the problem to make
the WalkSAT algorithm smarter by updating the belief of variable assignments
with each unsatisfied attempt so that it can obtain a positive bias towards
convergence and can find a satisfiable or unsatisfiable situation more efficiently .
The paper is organized as follows : section 2 discusses some of the relevant
works . Section 3 presents the approach and the proposed algorithm . Section 4
presents and discusses the results obtained . Section 5 concludes the paper with
some probable future works .
The starting state is critically important for any local search algorithm . Finding
a global minima or maxima can extensively be affected depending on where the
search started . WalkSAT the existing local search algorithm for determining
the satisfiability of propositional logic formulae is not able to bias the starting
state towards more promising states . The proposed BetaWalkSAT algorithm
improves the starting state over consecutive trials biasing towards convergence .
The results presented in the paper bolsters the claim showing that biasing
starting state by maintaining Beta distribution for each literal does help in
determining satisfiability . It outperforms for harder problems requiring many
trials though the difference is not significant enough . Applying BetaWalkSAT
in more complex solvable problems would help to better understand its perfor
mance . In future we will work more to formulate complex solvable problems
to better quantify the performance improvement of our algorithm . The idea of
biasing starting state is general and is supposed to work for other local search
algorithms as well . In future we will work to see how it behaves for other local
search algorithms .

@label
We propose a version of WalkSAT algorithm named as BetaWalkSAT . This
method uses probabilistic reasoning for biasing the starting state of the local
search algorithm
@label
Beta distribution is used to model the belief over boolean
values of the literals
@label
Our results suggest that the proposed BetaWalkSAT
algorithm can outperform other uninformed local search approaches for complex
boolean satisfiability problems