Increasing interest in integrating advanced
robotics within manufacturing has spurred a renewed concentration in developing real-time scheduling solutions to coordinate human-robot collaboration in this environment . Traditionally the problem of scheduling agents to complete tasks
with temporal and spatial constraints has been approached
either with exact algorithms which are computationally intractable for large-scale dynamic coordination or approximate
methods that require domain experts to craft heuristics for
each application . We seek to overcome the limitations of these
conventional methods by developing a novel graph attention network formulation to automatically learn features of scheduling
problems to allow their deployment . To learn effective policies
for combinatorial optimization problems via machine learning
we combine imitation learning on smaller problems with deep
Q-learning on larger problems in a non-parametric framework
to allow for fast near-optimal scheduling of robot teams . We
show that our network-based policy finds at least twice as
many solutions over prior state-of-the-art methods in all testing
scenarios .


Advances in robotic technology are enabling the introduction of mobile robots into manufacturing environments
alongside human workers . By removing the cage around
traditional robot platforms and integrating dynamic final
assembly operations with human-robot teams manufacturers
can see improvements in reducing a factory 's footprint and
environmental costs as well as increased productivity -LSB- 1 -RSB- .
For human workspaces associated with final assembly tasks
need to be quickly allocated and sequenced -LRB- i.e. scheduled -RRB-
among a set of robotic agents to achieve a high-quality schedule with respect to the application-specific objective function
while satisfying the temporal constraints -LRB- i.e. upper and
lower bound deadline wait and task duration constraints -RRB-
as well as spatial constraints on agent proximity for safe and
efficient collaboration with human workers . The problem of
resource optimization is made difficult by the inter-coupled
constraints requiring a joint schedule rather than allowing
each agent to compute their work plans independently .
Conventional approaches to scheduling typically involve
formulating the problem as a mathematical program and
leveraging commercial solvers or developing custom-made
approximate and meta-heuristic techniques . Exact algorithms
aim to find the optimal schedule based on enumeration
or branch-and-bound making them computationally expensive and unable to scale to large real-time scheduling .
Exact methods often rely on hand-crafted `` warm-start ''
heuristics unique to each application . Alternatively heuristic
approaches are lightweight and often effective ; however
designing application-specific heuristics requires extracting
and encoding domain-expert knowledge through interviews
and trial-and-error-based research a process which leaves
much to be desired . Furthermore accurately and efficiently
extracting this knowledge remains an open problem -LSB- 2 -RSB- .
To overcome the limitations of prior work we build on
promising developments in deep-learning-based architectures
-LRB- i.e. graph neural networks -RRB- to learn heuristics for combinatorial problems . Analogous to the convolutional neural networks for feature-learning in images graph neural networks
are able to hierarchically learn high-level representations of
graph structures through convolutions and backpropagation .
Yet these approaches have only been developed for simpler scheduling problems such as the traveling salesman
problem -LSB- 3 -RSB- -LSB- 4 -RSB- in which the graph is fully apparent and
and the graph 's edges are undirected . Conversely multirobot scheduling is a fundamentally different problem in
which the graphical structure is a directed acyclic graph with
latent disjointed temporal and spatial constraints that must
be inferred .
In this paper we develop a novel graph attention network
-LRB- GAT -RRB- -LSB- 5 -RSB- model to learn scheduling policies that reason
about the underlying simple temporal network -LRB- STN -RRB- structure -LSB- 6 -RSB- and auxiliary constraints for multi-robot allocation
and sequencing . Our GAT method is non-parametric in the
number of tasks meaning that the model can learn a policy
from problem formulations of one size while still being
able to construct schedules for task sets much larger than
seen during training . This non-parametricity is relatively
unique in machine learning but is fundamental to scheduling
problems as the needs of the manufacturer evolve minute
by minute . An added benefit is that our approach can
leverage imitation learning from smaller problems in which
supervised examples can be generated with exact solution
methods without the need for application-specific warm-start
specifics and still be fine-tuned with reinforcement learning
on large-scale problems that are computationally intractable
for exact approaches . We combine imitation learning with
deep Q-learning to learn a heuristic policy for scheduling
allowing for fast near-optimal scheduling of robot teams .
The combined framework is illustrated in Fig. 1 . We
demonstrate that our approach is able to find solutions for
> 90 % of problems for two robots scheduling up to 50 tasks
with proximity constraints versus only 20 % by prior stateof-the-art methods .

We presented a graph-attention-network-based framework
that can automatically learn a scalable scheduling policy
to coordinate multi-robot teams . By combining imitation
learning on small problems with deep Q-learning on larger
problems in a non-parametric framework we were able to
obtain a deterministic greedy policy that generated fast nearoptimal scheduling of robot teams . We demonstrated that our
network-based policy found at least twice as many solutions
over prior state-of-the-art methods in all testing scenarios .

@label
Increasing interest in integrating advanced
robotics within manufacturing has spurred a renewed concentration in developing real-time scheduling solutions to coordinate human-robot collaboration in this environment . Traditionally the problem of scheduling agents to complete tasks
with temporal and spatial constraints has been approached
either with exact algorithms which are computationally intractable for large-scale dynamic coordination or approximate
methods that require domain experts to craft heuristics for
each application .
@label
We seek to overcome the limitations of these
conventional methods by developing a novel graph attention network formulation to automatically learn features of scheduling
problems to allow their deployment .
@label
To learn effective policies
for combinatorial optimization problems via machine learning
we combine imitation learning on smaller problems with deep
Q-learning on larger problems in a non-parametric framework
to allow for fast near-optimal scheduling of robot teams .
@label
We show that our network-based policy finds at least twice as
many solutions over prior state-of-the-art methods in all testing
scenarios .