Many problems can be viewed as games where one or more
agents try to ensure that certain objectives hold no matter the behavior
from the environment and other agents . In recent years a number of logical formalisms have been proposed for specifying games among which
the Game Description Language -LRB- GDL -RRB- was established as the official
language for General Game Playing . Although numbers are recurring in
games the description of games with numerical features in GDL requires
the enumeration from all possible numeric values and the relation among
them . Thereby in this paper we introduce the Game Description Logic
with Integers -LRB- GDLZ -RRB- to describe games with numerical variables numerical parameters as well as to perform numerical comparisons . We
compare our approach with GDL and show that when describing the
same game GDLZ is more compact .

Many problems as multiagent planning or process synchronization can be
viewed as games where one or more agents try to ensure that certain objectives hold no matter the behavior from the environment and other agents -LSB- 4 -RSB- .
Thereby a number of logical formalisms have been proposed for specifying game
structures and its properties such as the Game Logic the Dynamic
Game Logic for sequential and simultaneous games the GameGolog
language and so on . Among this formalisms the Game Description Language
-LRB- GDL -RRB- has been established as the official language for the General Game
Playing -LRB- GGP -RRB- Competition . Due to the GDL limitations such as its restriction
to deterministic games with complete state information several works investigate
GDL extensions to improve its expressiveness . Zhang and Thielscher
provide a GDL extension using a modality for linear time and state transition
structures . They also propose two dual connectives to express preferences in
strategies .

Another extension is called GDL with Incomplete Information -LRB- GDL-II -RRB- and
it was proposed to describe nondeterministic games with randomness and incomplete state knowledge . A different approach to deal with this problem is
the Epistemic GDL that allows to represent imperfect information games and
provides a semantical model that can be used for reasoning about game information and players 's epistemic status -LSB- 6 -RSB- . GDL with Imperfect Information and
Introspection -LRB- GDL-III -RRB- is an extension of GDL-II to include epistemic games
which are characterized by rules that depend on the knowledge of players .
In order to model how agents can cooperate to achieve a desirable goal Jiang
et al.present a framework to combine GDL with the coalition operators
from Alternating-time Temporal Logic and prioritized strategy connectives .
Although numbers are recurring in game descriptions -LRB- e.g. Monopoly Nim
game -RRB- neither GDL or its extensions incorporate numerical features . In these
approaches numbers can be designed as index in propositions or actions but not
directly used as state variables . Thereby describing games with numerical features can lead to an exhaustive enumeration of all possible numeric values and
the relation between them . In the context of planning problems numerical features have been introduced in Planning Domain Description Language -LRB- PDDL -RRB-
by its first versions and improved by PDDL . In PDDL 2.1 a world
state contains an assignment of values to a set of numerical variables . These
variables can be modified by action effects and used in expressions to describe
actions ' preconditions and planning goals .
Similarly to the approach of PDDL 2.1 in this paper we introduce the
GDL extension Game Description Logic with Integers -LRB- GDLZ -RRB- that incorporates
numerical variables parameters and comparisons . Regarding that board games
are mainly described with discrete values our approach only considers the integer
set . We compare our approach with GDL and show that a game description in
GDLZ is more compact than the corresponding description in GDL .
This paper is organized as follows . In Section 2 we introduce the framework
by means of state transition structures and we present the language syntax
and semantics . In Section 3 we define the translation between GDLZ and GDL
and we compare both languages . Section 4 concludes the paper bringing final
considerations .

In this paper we have introduced a GDL extension to describe games with numerical aspects called GDLZ . In GDLZ states are evaluated with propositions
and an assignment of integer values to numerical variables . This allows us to
define the terminal and goal states in terms of the numerical conditions . Furthermore we define actions with numerical parameters such that these parameters
can influence over the action legality and over the state update . The language
was extended mainly to include the representation of numerical variables and
integer values as well as to allow numerical comparison .
We defined translations between GDLZ and GDL game models and formulas .
Since GDL models have finite components we can not define a complete model
translation for any GDLZ model . We first defined a partial translation from
any GDLZ model restricted to a specified path i.e. only a run in the game
is represented . Second we defined a complete translation from GDLZ models
with finite components and bounded formulas . We show that in both cases
a translated GDLZ model path or formula is a GDL model path or formula
respectively . Furthermore we prove that if a formula is satisfied at a stage in
a path under a GDLZ model its translation will also be satisfied at the same
stage in the translated path under the translated model .
Finally we show that if we have a GDLZ and a GDL description for the
same -LRB- finite -RRB- game the GDLZ description is more succinct or equal in terms
of the quantity of subformulas in the description . More precisely if the GDL
game description is based on the partial translation from a GDLZ description
restricted to one path it is linearly larger then the GDLZ description . When we
consider the complete model translation the GDL description is exponentially
larger than the GDLZ description .
Future work may extend GDLZ to define numerical rewards to players stating their achievement when the game ends . It means that numerical variables
may not have values assigned in some state of the model . Our aim is to investigate this new kind of numerical models . In our framework it is possible to define
both concurrent and sequential games . However the legality of an agent 's action
is independent from the actions of other agents . Thereby it may be inappropriate to describe concurrent games where the actions of two agents change the
same numerical variable . To overcome this limitation future work may explore
the definition of the legality function over joint actions .

@label
Many problems can be viewed as games where one or more
agents try to ensure that certain objectives hold no matter the behavior
from the environment and other agents
@label
In recent years a number of logical formalisms have been proposed for specifying games among which
the Game Description Language -LRB- GDL -RRB- was established as the official
language for General Game Playing
@label
Although numbers are recurring in
games the description of games with numerical features in GDL requires
the enumeration from all possible numeric values and the relation among
them
@label
Thereby in this paper we introduce the Game Description Logic
with Integers -LRB- GDLZ -RRB- to describe games with numerical variables numerical parameters as well as to perform numerical comparisons .
@label
We compare our approach with GDL and show that when describing the
same game GDLZ is more compact
