Representing maritime traffic patterns and detecting
anomalies from them are key to vessel monitoring and maritime
situational awareness . We propose a novel approach -- referred
to as GeoTrackNet -- for maritime anomaly detection from AIS
data streams . Our model exploits state-of-the-art neural network
schemes to learn a probabilistic representation of AIS tracks then
uses a contrario detection to detect abnormal events . The neural
network helps us capture complex and heterogeneous patterns
in vessels ' behaviors while the a contrario detection takes into
account the fact that the learned distribution may be locationdependent . Experiments on a real AIS dataset comprising more
than 4.2 million AIS messages demonstrate the relevance of the
proposed method .

Nowadays about 90 % of the world trade is carried by
maritime traffic and it is growing consistently -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Maritime
surveillance and Maritime Situational Awareness -LRB- MSA -RRB- are
vital demands . In this context anomaly detection is one of
the most important tasks because anomalies may involve
accidents -LRB- loss of navigation damages in engine etc. -RRB- or
illegal activities -LRB- smuggling illegal transshipment etc. -RRB- . Initially designed for collision avoidance the Automatic Identification System -LRB- AIS -RRB- has quickly become the main source of
information for maritime surveillance thanks to its information
richness .

The potential of AIS is
enormous however it is not fully utilized . AIS data are awash
in noise besides that the massive amount of data quickly
overwhelms human processing capacity . This emphasizes the
need for a system that can automatically analyze and arise an
alarm whenever there is an abnormal event . However since
AIS was originally created for collision avoidance only no
metadata -LRB- quality reliability uncertainty etc. -RRB- are available
making the anomaly detection from AIS a very difficult task .
Here we present GeoTrackNet -- a new approach for maritime anomaly detection using a probabilistic RNN-based
-LRB- Recurrent Neural Network -RRB- representation of AIS tracks and
a contrario detection . This paper is an extended version of
our previous work . The first step in GeoTrackNet is to
build a normalcy model that represents the characteristics of
AIS tracks . Actually at sea either being enforced by law or
for optimization issues.vessels follow
some specific patterns and we expect to learn these patterns
from data . In this work we exploit sequential
latent variational models specifically the Variational Recurrent
Neural Networks -LRB- VRNNs -RRB- to create a probabilistic representation of vessels ' movement patterns . RNNs have been
famous for their ability to capture long-term correlation in time
series -LRB- here AIS tracks -RRB- VRNNs are an extension of RNNs
where stochastic factors are added to improve the networks '
capacity of modeling data variabilities and uncertainties . This
architecture is one of the state-of-the-art methods for text
speech and music analysis and generating . In the
proposed scheme given the learned representation of the
movement patterns of vessels a `` geospatial a contrario ''
detector evaluates how likely an AIS track segment is to state
the detection of abnormal patterns . This detector exploits a
geospatial prior depending on the location-dependent complexity of the patterns observed in the considered dataset . This
prior also accounts for the strong geographical variabilities of
vessels ' occurrences and movement patterns . We demonstrate
the relevance of the proposed scheme with respect to state-ofthe-art approaches on a real dataset comprising more than 4.2
million AIS messages .

@label
We introduced a new approach for maritime anomaly detection using AIS data .
@label
To our knowledge this is the first model which relies on a normalcy model of AIS tracks using a deep learning generative scheme .
@label
More precisely we exploit Variational Recurrent Neural Networks to represent AIS tracks probabilistically .
@label
Once the approximate distribution of the data is learned a geographical a contrario detection is used to evaluate how likely an AIS track is .
@label
This detector takes into account the fact that the performance of the learning is geographically dependent .
@label
The general idea is that if an AIS message has its log probability lower than other messages ' in the same region it should be flagged as abnormal .
@label
An AIS track is abnormal if there are many abnormal messages in this track .

