A KRM-based dialogue management -LRB- DM -RRB- is proposed using to implement human-computer dialogue system in
complex scenarios . KRM-based DM has a well description ability
and it can ensure the logic of the dialogue process . Then a
complex application scenario in the Internet of Things -LRB- IOT -RRB-
industry and a dialogue system implemented based on the KRMbased DM will be introduced where the system allows enterprise
customers to customize topics and adapts corresponding topics
in the interaction process with users . The experimental results
show that the system can complete the interactive tasks well and
can effectively solve the problems of topic switching information
inheritance between topics change of dominance .

Dialogue is a kind of behavior of human brain . The brain
receives the grammatical expression of information through
vision or hearing recognizes the semantics of information
from accumulated knowledge decides the semantics that need
to be replied expresses the semantics into natural language
grammar and finally outputs it through voice . Dialogue
management model is the core technology in the field of
human-computer interaction and the dialogue management
module is the core module of a dialogue system . Dialogue
management module can identify the user 's intention from
the input and context information through natural language
processing technologies and then determine the response that
the system will output .
With the development of human-computer interaction technologies new dialogue management models have been proposed.reviews the current dialogue management model
including Finite State Machine based Frame based Reinforcement Learning based Example-based Plan-based Bayesian Network based etc. .
These dialog management models can work well in lots of
task-oriented and chat-oriented application scenarios . However the dialogue process will face many problems such
as topic switching information inheritance and change of
dominance in more complex application scenarios due to
the characteristics of human complexity randomness and
irrationality . It requires the dialogue management model to
have a better description ability a higher level of intelligence
so as to be able to solve these problems flexibly and effectively .
Knowledge-Requirement-Memory -LRB- KRM -RRB- model is a
mathematical model proposed to explain the principle of brain
information processing . Through the interaction of knowledge
requirement and memory the KRM model well explains
the information process of human brain 's abilities including cognition thinking creation language feeling etc. . The
human dialogue behavior is the comprehensive function of
these abilities of brain . In the process of dialogue the brain
experiences the process of identifying information thinking
about the knowledge requirements and memory contained
in information updating requirements outputting behavioral
instructions and finally result is the dialogue behavior .
This paper will propose a dialogue management model
based on KRM model . It is different from the existing dialog
management models that it is a requirement based dialog
management model . On the one hand KRM-based DM is
suitable for describe complex conversation scenarios because
KRM model is a model used to process general information .
On the other hand in the process of dialogue the content of
requirement memory and knowledge is dynamic changed and
the final behavior decision is the result of the comprehensive
effect of requirement memory and knowledge so it is suitable
for solving the problems of topic switching information
inheritance between topics change of dominance .
The organization of this paper is as follows : Chapter 2
introduces the KRM model and KRM-based DM . Chapter 3
introduces a complex application scenario and analyzes the
problems with an example . Chapter 4 introduces a system for
the complex scenario . Chapter 5 is the conclusion .

This paper proposes a new KRM-based dialogue management which can be used to solve more complex interaction
scenarios than the traditional ones .
First the decision-making model based on knowledge
requirement and memory has the better description ability .
Second information neuron is an independent unit of information storage and calculation . The system model based
on information neuron can realize very complex scenarios .
Moreover the independence of information neurons makes
it easy to expand the system architecture through distributed
methods .
Third separate memory from requirement . The information
provided by users will be transformed into memory . And then
memory information will be used to match the requirements
of scenarios information so it is easy to solve the problem of
information inheritance in different scenarios .
Fourth the decision-making process is divided into requirement and memory analysis memory matching requirement and
response decision-making stages so that the system response
no longer only depends on local information but integrates all
information results . Thus it is easy to solve the problems of
user topic switching and dominant change

@label
A KRM-based dialogue management is proposed using to implement human-computer dialogue system in complex scenarios .
@label
KRM-based DM has a well description ability and it can ensure the logic of the dialogue process .
@label
Then a complex application scenario in the Internet of Things industry and a dialogue system implemented based on the KRMbased DM will be introduced where the system allows enterprise customers to customize topics and adapts corresponding topics in the interaction process with users .
@label
The experimental results show that the system can complete the interactive tasks well and can effectively solve the problems of topic switching information inheritance between topics change of dominance .
