   Noun compounds (NCs) such as malaria mosquito and colon cancer tumor  suppressor protein are challenging  for text processing since  the relationship  between the  nouns  they are  composed of  is implicit. NCs are abundant in English and understanding their semantics is important in many natural language processing (NLP) applications. For example,  a question answering  system might need to  know whether protein acting as  a tumor suppressor is a  good paraphrase for tumor  suppressor  protein.  Similarly, a  machine  translation system  facing the  unknown noun  compound Geneva  headquarters might  translate  it  better  if  it  could  first  paraphrase  it  as Geneva headquarters of the WTO. Given  a  query for  "migraine  treatment",  an information  retrieval  system  could   use  paraphrasing  verbs  like relieve  and  prevent  for query  expansion  and  result ranking.  Most work on noun compound interpretation has focused on twoword NCs. There have been two general lines of research: the first one derives the NC semantics from the semantics of the nouns it is made of Rosario:2002,Moldovan:2004,Kim:2005,Girju:2007a,Oseaghdha:2009,Tratz:2010, while the second one models the relationship between the nouns directly Vanderwende:1994,Lapata:2002,Kim:2006,Nakov:2006:AIMSA,Nakov:2008,Butnariu:2008.  In either  case, the semantics of  an NC is typically  expressed by an abstract relation like Cause (e.g., malaria mosquito), Source (e.g.,  olive oil), or  Purpose (e.g., migraine  drug),  coming from  a  small  fixed inventory.  Some researchers however, have argued for a more fine-grained, even infinite, inventory Finin:1980. Verbs are particularly useful in this respect and can capture elements of the semantics that the abstract relations cannot. For  example,   while  most  NCs  expressing   Make,  can  be paraphrased by common patterns like be made of and be composed of,  some NCs allow  more specific patterns,  e.g., be squeezed from for orange juice,  and be topped with for bacon pizza.   Recently,    the    idea    of    sing    finegrained    paraphrasing verbs    for    NC    semantics   has    been    gaining    popularity Butnariu:2008,Nakov:2008:AIMSA; there  has also been  a related shared  task   at  SemEval-2010   SemEval:2010Paraphrase.  This interest is partly  driven by practicality: verbs  are directly usable as paraphrases.  Still, abstract relations remain  dominant since they offer  a more  natural generalization,  which is  useful for  many NLP applications.  One good  contribution to this debate  would be a direct  study of the  elat onship between fine-grained and  coarse-grained relations for NC interpretation. Unfortunately, the existing  datasets do not allow this since they are tied to one particular granularity; moreover, they only contain  a  few  hundred  NCs.  Thus, our  objective  is  to  build  a large-scale dataset of hundreds of thousands of NCs, each interpreted (1) by an abstract semantic relation and (2) by a set of paraphrasing verbs. Having such a large dataset would also help the overall advancement of the field.  Since there is no universally  accepted abstract relation inventory in NLP,  and  since  we  are  interested in  NC  semantics  from  both  a theoretical and  a practical viewpoint,  we chose the set  of abstract relations  proposed in  the  theory of  Levi:1978, which  is dominant  in theoretical  linguistics and  has  een  also used  in NLP Nakov:2008.  We use a two-step algorithm to jointly harvest NCs and patterns (verbs and prepositions) that  interpret them for a  given abstract relation. First, we  extract NCs using  a small number  of seed patterns  from a given abstract  relation. Then,  using the  extracted NCs,  we harvest more patterns. This  is repeated  ntil no new NCs  and patterns can be extracted or for a prespecified number of iterations. Our  approach  combines  pattern-based extraction  and  bootstrapping, which is novel for NC  interpretation; however, such combinations have been used in other areas, e.g., named entity recognition Riloff:1999,Thelen:2002,Curran:2007,McIntosh:2009.    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: sec:relatedwork gives an overview of related work, sec:representation motivates our semantic representation, Sections ||SYMBOLTOKEN|| <ref>, and ||SYMBOLTOKEN|| our method, dataset and experiments, respectively, sec:discussion discusses the results, sec:erroranalysis provides error analysis, and sec:conclusion concludes with suggestions for future work.      
