Recently the concept of transformative AI (TAI) has begun
to receive attention in the AI policy space. TAI is often
framed as an alternative formulation to notions of strong AI
(e.g. artificial general intelligence or superintelligence) and
reflects increasing consensus that advanced AI which does
not fit these definitions may nonetheless have extreme and
long-lasting impacts on society. However  the term TAI is
poorly defined and often used ambiguously. Some use the
notion of TAI to describe levels of societal transformation
associated with previous ‘general purpose technologies’
(GPTs) such as electricity or the internal combustion engine.
Others use the term to refer to more drastic levels of transformation comparable to the agricultural or industrial revolutions. The notion has also been used much more loosely 
with some implying that current AI systems are already having a transformative impact on society.
This paper unpacks and analyses the notion of TAI  proposing a distinction between TAI and radically transformative AI (RTAI)  roughly corresponding to societal change on
the level of the agricultural or industrial revolutions. We describe some relevant dimensions associated with each and
discuss what kinds of advances in capabilities they might require. We further consider the relationship between TAI and
RTAI and whether we should necessarily expect a period of
TAI to precede the emergence of RTAI. This analysis is important as it can help guide discussions among AI policy researchers about how to allocate resources towards mitigating
the most extreme impacts of AI and it can bring attention to
negative TAI scenarios that are currently neglected. 

Artificial intelligence (AI) has seen dramatic progress in recent years  particularly in a new subfield of machine learning called deep learning. The power of deep learning began
to be widely accepted beginning in late 2012  after its use in
the ImageNet competition (Krizhevsky et al. 2012). Its
Copyright © 2019 Ross Gruetzemacher and Jess Whittlestone.
power only became more obvious in the following years
when it was used to achieve superhuman performance in a
large number of Atari games  and then in the ancient board
game of Go (Mnih et al. 2013; Silver et al. 2015). More recently we’ve seen the power of deep learning being applied
to natural language processing (NLP) for pretraining language models (Radford et al. 2018). This recent progress in
AI has raised concerns about the potential applications of
these advances and their impact on society. These concerns
are shared by AI researchers  science and technology policy
professionals  and the general public (Zhang and Dafoe
2019).
While it is difficult to predict future innovative technological progress  it seems plausible that continued progress
could lead to more advanced AI systems  precipitating dramatic societal changes. Several different terms have been
used to refer to the possibility of AI systems more advanced
than those we have today  with the potential to lead to such
change. Attention has often focused on the notions of “human-level AI” (HLAI; McCarthy 1996)  “high-level machine intelligence” (HLMI; Grace et al. 2018)  or “artificial
general intelligence” (AGI; Goertzel 2007). These notions
of strong AI1 make broad assumptions about what advanced
AI systems must look like in order to lead to dramatic societal change and imply that the only types of systems we
should be concerned about are those which are human-level
or sufficiently general in their capabilities. In recent years 
the notion of transformative AI (TAI; Karnofsky 2016) has
begun to receive traction in the AI policy space  to reflect
the possibility that certain types of advanced AI systems
could have truly transformative effects on society without
necessarily having all the abilities humans have. 

Our aim in this paper is to unpack the notion of transformative AI  considering different levels of societal transformation that AI could plausibly lead to and how they relate
to each other. We use historical analogies - such as the transformative impacts of electricity  nuclear power and the domestication of plants - to explore and distinguish ways that
AI might be societally transformative. Though there are
many different levels on which AI may be transformative 
we propose an initial distinction between transformative AI
(TAI) and radically transformative AI (RTAI). We hope this
analysis and distinction will help clarify conversations
around the future impact of AI and priorities in AI policy
research  as well as improving attempts to anticipate different types of advanced AI. 

We suggest that focusing on the potential transformative impacts of advanced AI systems  rather than on specific features they may or may not possess (such as generality or
human-level capability)  is more likely to be productive in
directing attention to the most important scenarios  risks 
and areas to work on. However  current use of the term
transformative AI is very broad  often referring to levels of
societal change that range from AI-driven changes we are
already seeing to the possibility of an unprecedented and
fundamental change in human history. We suggest that notions of transformative change tend to incorporate several
dimensions  and that irreversibility or lock-in is the feature
that we consider to be most critical to the notion of transformative change: beyond this  the level of transformative
change can be determined based on the three key dimensions
of generality  fundamentality and extremity. Drawing analogies with historical cases of transformative societal change 
we propose a distinction between transformative AI (TAI)
and radically transformative AI (RTAI)  the former being
analogous to societal change associated with single GPTs
and the latter being analogous to the level of fundamental
and unprecedented societal change associated with the agricultural and industrial revolutions. While this may be a
crude distinction  we believe that adopting it - alongside
more nuanced discussion of different degrees of technological transformation - would improve the clarity of discourse
in the AI policy community. We also believe that TAI scenarios are worthy of significant attention in the AI policy
community  because there is a significant possibility that
such scenarios would precede  and possibly complicate  any
radically transformative scenarios.

@label
Recently the concept of transformative AI (TAI) has begun to receive attention in the AI policy space. 
@label
TAI is often framed as an alternative formulation to notions of strong AI and reflects increasing consensus that advanced AI which does not fit these definitions may nonetheless have extreme and long-lasting impacts on society. 
@label
However  the term TAI is poorly defined and often used ambiguously.
@label
Some use the notion of TAI to describe levels of societal transformation associated with previous ‘general purpose technologies’(GPTs) such as electricity or the internal combustion engine.
@label
Others use the term to refer to more drastic levels of transformation comparable to the agricultural or industrial revolutions. The notion has also been used much more loosely with some implying that current AI systems are already having a transformative impact on society.
@label
This paper unpacks and analyses the notion of TAI  proposing a distinction between TAI and radically transformative AI (RTAI)  roughly corresponding to societal change on the level of the agricultural or industrial revolutions. 
@label
We describe some relevant dimensions associated with each and discuss what kinds of advances in capabilities they might require.
@label
We further consider the relationship between TAI and RTAI and whether we should necessarily expect a period ofTAI to precede the emergence of RTAI.
@label
This analysis is important as it can help guide discussions among AI policy researchers about how to allocate resources towards mitigating the most extreme impacts of AI and it can bring attention to negative TAI scenarios that are currently neglected. 