Multi-Agent Systems (MASs) have been used to solve complex problems which demand intelligent agents working together to reach the desired goals.
These Agents should effectively synchronize their individual behaviors so that they
can act as a team in a coordinated manner to achieve the common goal of the whole
system. One of the main issues in MASs is the agents’ coordination  being common
domain experts observing MASs execution disapprove agents’ decisions. Even if
the MAS was designed using the best methods and tools for agents’ coordination 
this difference of decisions between experts and MAS is confirmed. Therefore  this
paper proposes a new dataset schema to support learning the coordinated behavior
in MASs from demonstration. The results of the proposed solution are validated
in a Multi-Robot System (MRS) organizing a collection of new cooperative plans
recommendations from the demonstration by domain experts.
Multi-Agent Systems (MASs) are solutions to complex problems demanding a
team of intelligent autonomous agents acting towards their common goals. To
achieve these common goals  agents in a MAS should be capable of interacting
with other agents  not simply by exchanging data  but by engaging as in social
activities  such as those people participate in their daily lives: cooperation  coordination  negotiation  and the like. In MASs  agents are assumed to be autonomous
- capable of making independent decisions about to do in order to satisfy their
design objectives  and thus they need mechanisms that allow them to synchronize
and to coordinate their activities at run time [31]. Although one of the main issues
in MASs is the agents’ coordination structure  this is not hard-wired at design
time  as MASs are typically in standard concurrent/distributed systems.
One well-known strategy for coordination in MAS is the design of multi-agent
coordinated plans that include  not only usual agents’ actions
defined by their effectors  but also communication actions to achieve the necessary synchronization and coordination. To represent communication actions  some
specific languages were created  e.g. Knowledge Query and Manipulation Language (KQML)  Knowledge Interchange Format (KIF). KQML is a messageoriented language that defines a common format for messages to be exchanged
between agents in a MAS. The development of KIF originally intended to provide
a common language for expressing properties of a particular domain  i.e.  the purpose of KIF was to express an ontology for a specific domain. Later  it was also
used to represent messages between agents.
Although the languages and ontologies defined for MAS are generally useful 
there are some specific domain properties and relations that are relatively hard to
be expressed. One of these domains is Multi-Robot Systems (MRSs)  often used in
stochastic  partially-observed  dynamic environments  and whereby an agent in a
MAS represents each robot. One well-known challenge of these complex domains is
robotic soccer  as proposed by the RoboCup Federation1
into the RoboCup Soccer
Simulation League2
. This league presents a context in which teams composed of
eleven agents face each other in a soccer match. This challenge is considered a
good test-bed for developing coordinated plans named setplays  in the robotic
soccer domain.
Many works have developed solutions to create setplays in the robotic soccer
domain. Section 2 presents details about these solutions and
tools. However  even with all the development in setplays design  situations have
commonly been observed whereby domain experts would recommend a different
setplay  from the one decided by the team of agents. This difference is due to the
informality present in the specialized knowledge. In fact  it is often hard to extract some natural features from domain experts during the knowledge extraction
design phase  when an intelligent agent project has been started. For example 
in a robotic soccer domain  two different domain experts may recommend different triangulation setplays to overcome an opponent player  but both setplays are
equivalent and a MRS can consider these setplays as a unique choice to deal with
the posed situation. Learning from Demonstration (LfD) has been used to learn robots basic skills
or even very simple setplays in a MRS [11]. Although  there is no register of using
LfD to learn complex setplays. Therefore  this work proposes using LfD to offer
domain experts a chance to watch robotic soccer matches and suggest new setplays
for each situation for which they think the MRS has made a bad decision.
Section 3 presents the state-of-the-art for learning coordinated plans in MAS.
One of the main issues in LfD for setplays is the nature of the dataset generated
from the domain experts recommendation. Some features in this dataset are not
of primitive types as scalars or strings  but some complex types  such as objects 
structures  trees  etc. Thus  we also define a strategy presented in Section 2.4  to
handle this kind of complex data.
The proposed solution has a two-level dataset  detailed in Section 4. To assess the feasibility of using this dataset to support setplays learning  the Fuzzy
C-Means (FCM) algorithm is used to organize setplays recommendations into
clusters. The choice of the FCM algorithm is due to the imprecision inherent in
the friendly interface proposed for use by experts to generate the recommendations
of setplays. The suggestions from experts are organized in clusters to solve the semantic equivalence issue presented in Section 2. Section 5 describes the assessment
process and its results. Section 6 has conclusion and future work descriptions.
This work presents a novel schema to represent coordinated plans in a MRS. The
dataset includes non-scalar features such as Boolean conditions  lists of complex
objects (i.e.  list of behaviors  list of players  list of steps). The dataset schema is
divided into two levels to deal with the complexity of these non-scalar data types.
The main motivation to create this schema is to represent the semantic equivalence
defined in Section 2.2. This work is part of a project that aims to enable domain
experts to suggest new coordinated plans from real situations in which robots act in
an MRS. Big datasets  formed by recommendations from several domain experts 
tend to present a number of semantic equivalent instances. These instances may
have different features values but the meaning in the abstract human knowledge
level is the same.
If learning approaches are applied to the rough dataset  the solution will present
high computational costs and may present problems with over fitting due to a
high number of semantic equivalent instances. Therefore  the main goal of this
work is to propose a dataset schema to organize the original dataset into groups of
semantic equivalent instances. The concept of semantic equivalence has no strict
limit  because it is in the human abstract knowledge level. Thus  one instance can
be semantic equivalent to instances of two different groups with different degrees
of membership. For this reason  we considered the use of a fuzzy approach to
organize the dataset.
The FCM algorithm was used in a two-stage implementation to deal with the
two-level structure of the proposed dataset schema. The FS clustering validation index was used to assess the cluster configuration generated by the FCM execution.
 Besides using an objective measure to assess the groups configuration  it
is important to visually check which instance is assigned to each cluster. Since
semantic equivalence is an abstract concept  the assessment should consider this
aspect when evaluating if the cluster configuration makes sense. In our assessment 
we used a dataset generated in our lab using the SPlanner tool.
The results show an useful group configuration for future setplays learning
experiments. The clusters contain semantic equivalents setplays and some hidden
similarities were discovered due to the fuzzy aspect of the solution used to assess
the dataset schema. The objective FS measure shows that clusters in the second
level can be representative of the semantic equivalence or not. Clusters at the first
level with higher number of instances tend to generate more adequate sub-clusters
at the second level. It is also possible to use FS to define if a group at the first
level will be split into two or more groups at the second level or if it should be
kept as a single group.
Hence  we can conclude that the proposed dataset schema can be used as a
base to organize a setplays dataset in an MRS into semantic equivalent groups of
instances. Using this contribution  it is possible to support the setplays learning
from a demonstration project. As future work  we plan to use other cluster validity
indexes to compare the measurements with the results of this work. Larger datasets
built from different domain experts recommendations will be used to acknowledge
the results presented. The results of these experiments using real databases will
be used to assess the setplays learning from demonstration proposal.
Although this work has applied all the assessment to the robotic soccer domain 
any MRS using coordinated can benefit from the results presented here. Conditions
and list of behaviors and steps are common features in any coordinated plans for
robots in an MRS.

@label
Multi-Agent Systems (MASs) have been used to solve complex problems which demand intelligent agents working together to reach the desired goals.
@label
These Agents should effectively synchronize their individual behaviors so that they
can act as a team in a coordinated manner to achieve the common goal of the whole
system.
@label
One of the main issues in MASs is the agents’ coordination  being common
domain experts observing MASs execution disapprove agents’ decisions.
@label
Even if the MAS was designed using the best methods and tools for agents’ coordination 
this difference of decisions between experts and MAS is confirmed. 
@label
Therefore  this paper proposes a new dataset schema to support learning the coordinated behavior
in MASs from demonstration. 
@label
The results of the proposed solution are validated
in a Multi-Robot System (MRS) organizing a collection of new cooperative plans
recommendations from the demonstration by domain experts.